Readme.md, before:

# PolyShim

[![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-active-47c219.svg)](https://github.com/Tyrrrz/.github/blob/master/docs/project-status.md)
[![Made in Ukraine](https://img.shields.io/badge/made_in-ukraine-ffd700.svg?labelColor=0057b7)](https://tyrrrz.me/ukraine)
[![Build](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/Tyrrrz/PolyShim/main.yml?branch=master)](https://github.com/Tyrrrz/PolyShim/actions)
[![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/Tyrrrz/PolyShim/master)](https://codecov.io/gh/Tyrrrz/PolyShim)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/PolyShim.svg)](https://nuget.org/packages/PolyShim)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/nuget/dt/PolyShim.svg)](https://nuget.org/packages/PolyShim)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/869237470565392384?label=discord)](https://discord.gg/2SUWKFnHSm)
[![Fuck Russia](https://img.shields.io/badge/fuck-russia-e4181c.svg?labelColor=000000)](https://twitter.com/tyrrrz/status/1495972128977571848)

<table>
    <tr>
        <td width="99999" align="center">Development of this project is entirely funded by the community. <b><a href="https://tyrrrz.me/donate">Consider donating to support!</a></b></td>
    </tr>
</table>

**PolyShim** is a collection of polyfills that enable many modern framework APIs and compiler features for projects targeting older versions of .NET.
It's distributed as a source-only package that can be referenced without imposing any run-time dependencies.

## Terms of use<sup>[[?]](https://github.com/Tyrrrz/.github/blob/master/docs/why-so-political.md)</sup>

By using this project or its source code, for any purpose and in any shape or form, you grant your **implicit agreement** to all the following statements:

- You **condemn Russia and its military aggression against Ukraine**
- You **recognize that Russia is an occupant that unlawfully invaded a sovereign state**
- You **support Ukraine's territorial integrity, including its claims over temporarily occupied territories of Crimea and Donbas**
- You **reject false narratives perpetuated by Russian state propaganda**

To learn more about the war and how you can help, [click here](https://tyrrrz.me/ukraine). Glory to Ukraine! 🇺🇦

## Install

- 📦 [NuGet](https://nuget.org/packages/PolyShim): `dotnet add package PolyShim`

> **Important**:
> To reference this package, your project must use the latest version of the .NET SDK and the C# language.
> This is only required for the build process, and does not affect which version of the runtime you can target.

## Features

- Enables compiler support for:
  - Nullable reference types
  - Init-only properties and records
  - Required properties
  - Named tuples
  - Module initializers
  - Overload priority
  - Caller member information
  - & more...
- Provides polyfills for many missing built-in types
- Provides polyfills for many missing members on built-in types
- Adjusts coverage based on available capabilities
- Targets .NET Standard 1.0+, .NET Core 1.0+, .NET Framework 3.5+
- Imposes no run-time dependencies

## Usage

**PolyShim** polyfills come in two forms:

- **Type polyfills**, which define missing built-in types by reimplementing them from scratch.
- **Member polyfills**, which are provided through global extension members that substitute missing members on existing built-in types.

Once the package is installed, the polyfills will be automatically added to your project as internal source files.
You can then use them in your code by referencing the corresponding types or members as if they were defined natively.

> **Note**:
> Polyfills are only applied to types and members that are not already provided.
> When a native implementation of a symbol is available — either in the framework or through a referenced [compatibility package](#compatibility-packages) — it will always be prioritized over the corresponding polyfill.

### Type polyfills

**PolyShim** provides various types that are not available natively on older target frameworks.
These types are defined within the corresponding `System.*` namespaces and mimic the behavior of their original implementations as closely as possible.

For example, with **PolyShim** you can use the `Index` and `Range` structs (added in .NET Core 3.0) on any older version of .NET:

```csharp
using System;

// On newer frameworks, this relies on the native implementation.
// On older frameworks, this relies on PolyShim.
// Same code works everywhere without any changes.
var index = new Index(1, fromEnd: true);
var range = new Range(
    new Index(3),
    new Index(1, true)
);
```

You can also use compiler features that rely on these types, such as the advanced indexing and slicing operators:

```csharp
var array = new[] { 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 };

// On newer frameworks, this relies on the native implementation.
// On older frameworks, this relies on PolyShim.
// Same code works everywhere without any changes.
var last = array[^1];
var part = array[3..^1];
```

### Member polyfills

**PolyShim** provides a number of extension members that act as shims for instance or static members that are not available natively on older target frameworks.
These extension members are typically defined within the global namespace, so they can be used on the corresponding types just like regular members, without any additional `using` directives.

For example, with **PolyShim** you can call the `string.Contains(char)` method (added in .NET Core 2.0) on any older version of .NET:

```csharp
var str = "Hello world";

// On newer frameworks, this call uses the native implementation.
// On older frameworks, this call is implemented by PolyShim.
// Same code works everywhere without any changes.
var contains = str.Contains('w');
```

Similarly, you can also reference the `Environment.ProcessId` static property (added in .NET 5.0) and **PolyShim** will make it work on older versions of .NET:

```csharp
using System;

// On newer frameworks, this relies on the native implementation.
// On older frameworks, this relies on PolyShim.
// Same code works everywhere without any changes.
var processId = Environment.ProcessId;
```

### Compatibility packages

Some features from newer versions of .NET can also be made available on older frameworks using official compatibility packages published by Microsoft.
**PolyShim** automatically detects if any of these packages are installed and adjusts its polyfill coverage accordingly — either by enabling additional polyfills that build upon those features, or by disabling polyfills for APIs that are already provided in the compatibility packages. 

Currently, **PolyShim** has integration with the following packages:
- [`System.Diagnostics.Process`](https://nuget.org/packages/System.Diagnostics.Process) — `Process`, `ProcessStartInfo`, etc.
- [`System.Management`](https://nuget.org/packages/System.Management) — `ManagementObjectSearcher`, etc.
- [`System.Memory`](https://nuget.org/packages/System.Memory) — `Memory<T>`, `Span<T>`, etc.
- [`System.Net.Http`](https://nuget.org/packages/System.Net.Http) — `HttpClient`, `HttpContent`, etc.
- [`System.Runtime.InteropServices.RuntimeInformation`](https://nuget.org/packages/System.Runtime.InteropServices.RuntimeInformation) — `RuntimeInformation`, `OSPlatform`, etc.
- [`System.Threading.Tasks`](https://nuget.org/packages/System.Threading.Tasks) — `Task`, `Task<T>`, etc.
- [`System.Threading.Tasks.Extensions`](https://nuget.org/packages/System.Threading.Tasks.Extensions) — `ValueTask`, `ValueTask<T>`, etc.
- [`System.ValueTuple`](https://nuget.org/packages/System.ValueTuple) — `ValueTuple<...>`, etc.
- [`Microsoft.Bcl.Async`](https://nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Bcl.Async) — `Task`, `Task<T>`, etc (wider support than the `System.*` variant).
- [`Microsoft.Bcl.AsyncInterfaces`](https://nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Bcl.AsyncInterfaces) — `IAsyncEnumerable<T>`, `IAsyncDisposable`, etc.
- [`Microsoft.Bcl.HashCode`](https://nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Bcl.HashCode) — `HashCode`, etc.
- [`Microsoft.Bcl.Memory`](https://nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Bcl.Memory) — `Index`, `Range`, etc.
- [`Microsoft.Net.Http`](https://nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Net.Http) — `HttpClient`, `HttpContent`, etc (wider support than the `System.*` variant).

For example, adding a reference to the `System.Memory` package will enable **PolyShim**'s polyfills that offer `Span<T>` and `Memory<T>`-based method overloads on various built-in types, such as `Stream`:

```xml
<Project>

  <PropertyGroup>
    <TargetFramework>netstandard2.0</TargetFramework>
  </PropertyGroup>

  <ItemGroup>
    <PackageReference Include="PolyShim" Version="*" />
    <PackageReference Include="System.Memory" Version="4.5.5" />
  </ItemGroup>

</Project>
```

```csharp
using System.Buffers;
using System.IO;

using var stream = /* ... */;
using var buffer = MemoryPool<byte>.Shared.Rent(512);

// System.Memory is referenced, so this polyfill is enabled
var bytesRead = await stream.ReadAsync(buffer.Memory);
```

Conversely, adding a reference to the `System.ValueTuple` package will disable **PolyShim**'s own version of `ValueTuple<...>` and related types.
You can leverage this to prioritize the official implementation wherever possible, while still relying on the polyfilled version for older target frameworks:

```xml
<Project>

  <PropertyGroup>
    <TargetFramework>netstandard1.6</TargetFramework>
  </PropertyGroup>

  <ItemGroup>
    <PackageReference Include="PolyShim" Version="*" />
    <PackageReference Include="System.ValueTuple" Version="4.5.0" />
  </ItemGroup>

</Project>
```

```csharp
// System.ValueTuple is referenced, so this polyfill is disabled
// (the native implementation is used instead)
var (x, y) = ("hello world", 42);
```

Commit message:

Automatically generate the list of polyfilled signatures (#45)

Readme.md, after:

# PolyShim

[![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-active-47c219.svg)](https://github.com/Tyrrrz/.github/blob/master/docs/project-status.md)
[![Made in Ukraine](https://img.shields.io/badge/made_in-ukraine-ffd700.svg?labelColor=0057b7)](https://tyrrrz.me/ukraine)
[![Build](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/Tyrrrz/PolyShim/main.yml?branch=master)](https://github.com/Tyrrrz/PolyShim/actions)
[![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/Tyrrrz/PolyShim/master)](https://codecov.io/gh/Tyrrrz/PolyShim)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/PolyShim.svg)](https://nuget.org/packages/PolyShim)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/nuget/dt/PolyShim.svg)](https://nuget.org/packages/PolyShim)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/869237470565392384?label=discord)](https://discord.gg/2SUWKFnHSm)
[![Fuck Russia](https://img.shields.io/badge/fuck-russia-e4181c.svg?labelColor=000000)](https://twitter.com/tyrrrz/status/1495972128977571848)

<table>
    <tr>
        <td width="99999" align="center">Development of this project is entirely funded by the community. <b><a href="https://tyrrrz.me/donate">Consider donating to support!</a></b></td>
    </tr>
</table>

**PolyShim** is a collection of polyfills that enable many modern framework APIs and compiler features for projects targeting older versions of .NET.
It's distributed as a source-only package that can be referenced without imposing any run-time dependencies.

You can find the full list of polyfilled signatures [here](PolyShim/Signatures.md).

## Terms of use<sup>[[?]](https://github.com/Tyrrrz/.github/blob/master/docs/why-so-political.md)</sup>

By using this project or its source code, for any purpose and in any shape or form, you grant your **implicit agreement** to all the following statements:

- You **condemn Russia and its military aggression against Ukraine**
- You **recognize that Russia is an occupant that unlawfully invaded a sovereign state**
- You **support Ukraine's territorial integrity, including its claims over temporarily occupied territories of Crimea and Donbas**
- You **reject false narratives perpetuated by Russian state propaganda**

To learn more about the war and how you can help, [click here](https://tyrrrz.me/ukraine). Glory to Ukraine! 🇺🇦

## Install

- 📦 [NuGet](https://nuget.org/packages/PolyShim): `dotnet add package PolyShim`

> **Important**:
> To reference this package, your project must use the latest version of the .NET SDK and the C# language.
> This is only required for the build process, and does not affect which version of the runtime you can target.

## Usage

**PolyShim** polyfills come in two forms:

- **Type polyfills**, which define missing built-in types by reimplementing them from scratch.
- **Member polyfills**, which are provided through global extension members that substitute missing members on existing built-in types.

Once the package is installed, the polyfills will be automatically added to your project as internal source files.
You can then use them in your code by referencing the corresponding types or members as if they were defined natively.

> **Note**:
> Polyfills are only applied to types and members that are not already provided.
> When a native implementation of a symbol is available — either in the framework or through a referenced [compatibility package](#compatibility-packages) — it will always be prioritized over the corresponding polyfill.

### Type polyfills

**PolyShim** provides various types that are not available natively on older target frameworks.
These types are defined within the corresponding `System.*` namespaces and mimic the behavior of their original implementations as closely as possible.

For example, with **PolyShim** you can use the `Index` and `Range` structs (added in .NET Core 3.0) on any older version of .NET:

```csharp
using System;

// On newer frameworks, this relies on the native implementation.
// On older frameworks, this relies on PolyShim.
// Same code works everywhere without any changes.
var index = new Index(1, fromEnd: true);
var range = new Range(
    new Index(3),
    new Index(1, true)
);
```

You can also use compiler features that rely on these types, such as the advanced indexing and slicing operators:

```csharp
var array = new[] { 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 };

// On newer frameworks, this relies on the native implementation.
// On older frameworks, this relies on PolyShim.
// Same code works everywhere without any changes.
var last = array[^1];
var part = array[3..^1];
```

> **Note**:
> You can find the full list of polyfilled signatures [here](PolyShim/Signatures.md).

### Member polyfills

**PolyShim** provides a number of extension members that act as shims for instance or static members that are not available natively on older target frameworks.
These extension members are typically defined within the global namespace, so they can be used on the corresponding types just like regular members, without any additional `using` directives.

For example, with **PolyShim** you can call the `string.Contains(char)` method (added in .NET Core 2.0) on any older version of .NET:

```csharp
var str = "Hello world";

// On newer frameworks, this call uses the native implementation.
// On older frameworks, this call is implemented by PolyShim.
// Same code works everywhere without any changes.
var contains = str.Contains('w');
```

Similarly, you can also reference the `Environment.ProcessId` static property (added in .NET 5.0) and **PolyShim** will make it work on older versions of .NET:

```csharp
using System;

// On newer frameworks, this relies on the native implementation.
// On older frameworks, this relies on PolyShim.
// Same code works everywhere without any changes.
var processId = Environment.ProcessId;
```

> **Note**:
> You can find the full list of polyfilled signatures [here](PolyShim/Signatures.md).

### Compatibility packages

Some features from newer versions of .NET can also be made available on older frameworks using official compatibility packages published by Microsoft.
**PolyShim** automatically detects if any of these packages are installed and adjusts its polyfill coverage accordingly — either by enabling additional polyfills that build upon those features, or by disabling polyfills for APIs that are already provided in the compatibility packages. 

Currently, **PolyShim** has integration with the following packages:
- [`System.Diagnostics.Process`](https://nuget.org/packages/System.Diagnostics.Process) — `Process`, `ProcessStartInfo`, etc.
- [`System.Management`](https://nuget.org/packages/System.Management) — `ManagementObjectSearcher`, etc.
- [`System.Memory`](https://nuget.org/packages/System.Memory) — `Memory<T>`, `Span<T>`, etc.
- [`System.Net.Http`](https://nuget.org/packages/System.Net.Http) — `HttpClient`, `HttpContent`, etc.
- [`System.Runtime.InteropServices.RuntimeInformation`](https://nuget.org/packages/System.Runtime.InteropServices.RuntimeInformation) — `RuntimeInformation`, `OSPlatform`, etc.
- [`System.Threading.Tasks`](https://nuget.org/packages/System.Threading.Tasks) — `Task`, `Task<T>`, etc.
- [`System.Threading.Tasks.Extensions`](https://nuget.org/packages/System.Threading.Tasks.Extensions) — `ValueTask`, `ValueTask<T>`, etc.
- [`System.ValueTuple`](https://nuget.org/packages/System.ValueTuple) — `ValueTuple<...>`, etc.
- [`Microsoft.Bcl.Async`](https://nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Bcl.Async) — `Task`, `Task<T>`, etc (wider support than the `System.*` variant).
- [`Microsoft.Bcl.AsyncInterfaces`](https://nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Bcl.AsyncInterfaces) — `IAsyncEnumerable<T>`, `IAsyncDisposable`, etc.
- [`Microsoft.Bcl.HashCode`](https://nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Bcl.HashCode) — `HashCode`, etc.
- [`Microsoft.Bcl.Memory`](https://nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Bcl.Memory) — `Index`, `Range`, etc.
- [`Microsoft.Net.Http`](https://nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Net.Http) — `HttpClient`, `HttpContent`, etc (wider support than the `System.*` variant).

For example, adding a reference to the `System.Memory` package will enable **PolyShim**'s polyfills that offer `Span<T>` and `Memory<T>`-based method overloads on various built-in types, such as `Stream`:

```xml
<Project>

  <PropertyGroup>
    <TargetFramework>netstandard2.0</TargetFramework>
  </PropertyGroup>

  <ItemGroup>
    <PackageReference Include="PolyShim" Version="*" />
    <PackageReference Include="System.Memory" Version="4.5.5" />
  </ItemGroup>

</Project>
```

```csharp
using System.Buffers;
using System.IO;

using var stream = /* ... */;
using var buffer = MemoryPool<byte>.Shared.Rent(512);

// System.Memory is referenced, so this polyfill is enabled
var bytesRead = await stream.ReadAsync(buffer.Memory);
```

Conversely, adding a reference to the `System.ValueTuple` package will disable **PolyShim**'s own version of `ValueTuple<...>` and related types.
You can leverage this to prioritize the official implementation wherever possible, while still relying on the polyfilled version for older target frameworks:

```xml
<Project>

  <PropertyGroup>
    <TargetFramework>netstandard1.6</TargetFramework>
  </PropertyGroup>

  <ItemGroup>
    <PackageReference Include="PolyShim" Version="*" />
    <PackageReference Include="System.ValueTuple" Version="4.5.0" />
  </ItemGroup>

</Project>
```

```csharp
// System.ValueTuple is referenced, so this polyfill is disabled
// (the native implementation is used instead)
var (x, y) = ("hello world", 42);
```
